ENSIP-14 - CCIP metadata (#116)
ensdomains/docs: ens-improvement-proposals/ensip-16-offchain-metadata.md

     * @return graphqlUrl url of graphql endpoint that provides additional information about the offchain name and its subdomains
     * @return storageType 0 = EVM, 1 = Non blockchain, 2 = Starknet
     * @storageLocation = l2 contract address
     * @return context = an arbitrary bytes string to define the namespace to which a record belongs such as the name owner.
     */
    function metadata(bytes calldata name)
        external
        view
        returns (string memory, uint256, string memory, uint8, bytes memory, bytes memory)
    {
        return (name, coinType, graphqlUrl, storageType, storageLocation, context);
    }

    // Optional. If context is dynamic, the event won't be emitted.
    event MetadataChanged(
        string name,
        uint256 coinType,
        string graphqlUrl,
        uint8 storageType,
        bytes storageLocation,
        bytes context
    );
}
```

```javascript
const node = namehash('ccipreadsub.example.eth')
const resolver = await ens.resolver(node)
const owner = await resolver.owner(node)
// 0x123...
const dataLocation = await.resolver.graphqlUrl()
// {
//   url: 'http://example.com/ens/graphql',
// }
```

> ##### GgraphQL schema

Author: ```suggestion
##### GraphQL schema
```

##### L1

```graphql

type Domain @entity{
  id
  metadata: Metadata
}

type Metadata @entity {
  "l1 resolver address"
  id: ID!
  "Name of the Chain"
  name: String
  "coin type"
  coinType: BigInt
  "url of the graphql endpoint"
  graphqlUrl: String
  "0 for evm, 1 for non blockchain, 2 for starknet"
  storageType: Int
  "l2 contract address"
  storageLocation: Bytes
  "optional field to store an arbitrary bytes string to define the namespace to which a record belongs"
  context: Bytes
  "optional field if the name has expirty date offchain"
  expiryDate: BigInt
}

type Resolver @entity {
  offchain: Offchain
}
```

##### L2

```graphql
type Domain {
  id: ID! # concatenation of context and namehash delimited by `-`
  context: Bytes
  name: String
  namehash: Bytes
  labelName: String
  labelhash: Bytes
  resolvedAddress: Bytes
  parent: Domain

>   subdomains: [Domain]

Reviewer: Can we also add a `subdomainCount` here too?

Also, is pagination (or lack thereof) left up to the implementer to support or not?

---
description: Allows metadata to be queried on ERC-3668 enabled names
---

# ENSIP-16: Offchain metadata

> | **Author**    | Jeff Lau \<jeff@ens.domains> |

Reviewer 2: @makoto You should add yourself here too

| ------------- | ---------------------------- |
| **Status**    | Draft                        |
| **Submitted** | 2022-09-22                   |

### Abstract

This ENSIP allows metadata to be queried directly on the resolver for ERC-3668(CCIP Read: Secure offchain data retrieval) enabled names. ERC-3668 will power many of the domains in the future, however since the retrieval mechanism uses wildcard + offchain resolver, there is no standardised way to retrieve important metadata information such as the owner (who can change the records), or which L2/offchain database the records are stored on.

### Motivation

> With ERC-3668 subdomains already starting to get used by larger partners in the ENS ecosystem, it is important that there is a way of frontend interfaces to get important metadata to allow a smooth user interface. For instance the owner of a ERC-3668 enabled name would need to be known, for a UI to show whether or not the currently connected account has the rights to edit the records. If the owner was not known, the only way to know would be to make the edit and wait for failure.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With ERC-3668 subdomains already starting to see wide adoption, it is important that there is a way for frontend interfaces to get important metadata to allow a smooth user experience. For instance a UI needs to be able to check if the currently connected user has the right to update an EIP-3668 name.
```

#### Dynamic Metadata

Metadata serves a crucial role in providing valuable insights about a node owner and their specific resolver. In certain scenarios, resolvers may choose to adopt diverse approaches to resolve data based on the node. An example of this would be handling subdomains of a particular node differently. For instance, we could resolve "optimism.foo.eth" using a contract on optimism and "gnosis.foo.eth" using a contract on gnosis.
By passing the name through metadata, we empower the resolution process, enabling CcipResolve flows to become remarkably flexible and scalable. This level of adaptability ensures that our system can accommodate a wide array of use cases, making it more user-friendly and accommodating for a diverse range of scenarios.

### Implementation

```solidity

interface OffChainResolver {
    /** @dev Returns the owner of the resolver on L2
     * @param node
     * @return owner in bytes32 instead of address to cater for non EVM based owner information
     */
    owner(bytes32 node) returns (bytes32 owner);

>     isApprovedForAll(address account, address operator) returns (boolean);

Reviewer 2: We should specify two separate interfaces - one basic one that all L1 CCIP-Read enabled resolvers should implement, and one L2 one for ownership data etc that can be implemented on EVM-compatible L2s.

>     isApprovedForAll(address account, address operator) returns (boolean);

Reviewer 3: `one basic one that all L1 CCIP-Read enabled resolvers should implement,` this is basically what `owner` and `isApprovedForAll` on L1 resolver can implement as long as it also takes `context` as an argument

     * @return graphqlUrl url of graphql endpoint that provides additional information about the offchain name and its subdomains
     * @return storageType 0 = EVM, 1 = Non blockchain, 2 = Starknet
     * @storageLocation = l2 contract address
     * @return context = an arbitrary bytes string to define the namespace to which a record belongs such as the name owner.
     */
    function metadata(bytes calldata name)
        external
        view
        returns (string memory, uint256, string memory, uint8, bytes memory, bytes memory)
    {
        return (name, coinType, graphqlUrl, storageType, storageLocation, context);
    }

    // Optional. If context is dynamic, the event won't be emitted.
    event MetadataChanged(
        string name,
        uint256 coinType,
        string graphqlUrl,
        uint8 storageType,
        bytes storageLocation,
        bytes context
    );
}
```

```javascript
const node = namehash('ccipreadsub.example.eth')
const resolver = await ens.resolver(node)
const owner = await resolver.owner(node)
// 0x123...
const dataLocation = await.resolver.graphqlUrl()
// {
//   url: 'http://example.com/ens/graphql',
// }
```

> ##### GraphQL schema

Reviewer 2: This needs a short description as to why it's being specified and how it will operate.

Reviewer 2: I had in mind something more specific to this EIP, like "this specifies the schema for a standardized metadata subgraph, which collects information emitted by L1 and L2 resolvers".
